- type: talk
- title: Developing an F# Bioinformatics Application with HTML5 Visualization
- speakers: Adam Granicz
- affiliations: IntelliFactory
- video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSsTMkmgdbc

## Abstract
With proprietary plugin-based containers like Flash or Silverlight gradually
losing ground, an increasing number of web applications are beginning to
seek web standards compliance, and to utilize HTML5 to deliver rich and
interactive client-side functionality and end-user experience.  Indeed,
modern browsers continue to invest heavily in establishing standard support
for various HTML5 features, making HTML5 an appropriate choice for an
ever-growing crowd of web developers.

Earlier this year at IntelliFactory, we completed a pilot project missioned
to create a custom, innovative, and highly interactive bioinformatics web
application using F# and our WebSharper technology. This application set out
to serve the bioinformatics research community, and to deliver, among
others, an interactive visualization of the gene sequence of a particular
bacterium, with various mutations available for further research and
laboratory use.  The application consumed a large amount of bio data and
integrated various advanced HTML5 visualizations, such as full functional
gene ontology, a KEGG orthology, and a phenotype map, making it a useful web
resource for researchers and laboratory staff alike.

In this talk, I will present our experience report on developing this
bioinformatics application, the practices and guidelines related to
client-based visualization projects we distilled while developing it, the
challenges we met on the way, and how we solved these challenges. Many
bioinformatics algorithms are amenable to functional programming, but as a
full-blown web application with advanced visualization this project yielded
a great deal of details that we hope will be useful for other attendees.

## Adam Granicz
Adam Granicz is a long-time F# insider and key community member, and the
co-author of four F# books, including the upcoming edition of Expert F# 3.0
with Don Syme, the designer of the language. His company IntelliFactory
specializes in consulting on the most demanding F# projects; shaping the
future of the development of F# web, mobile and cloud applications; and
developing WebSharper, the most mature web and mobile development framework
for F#.  You can follow him on Twitter at @granicz, or find him on FPish,
the largest online functional programming community.
