- type: tutorial
- title: Clojure Tutorial
- speakers: Aaron Bedra
- affiliations: Relevance Inc


## Abstract
In this tutorial you will spend some time learning about what clojure
has to offer and build an application that solves a real world
problem. In this tutorial pair programming is welcome and encouraged!
Bring a friend to help you work through the exercises and to bounce
ideas off of.

### Introduction
- Clojure's Elevator Pitch
- Diving into the Syntax

In the introduction you will learn key features of the clojure
language and learn how to read and understand the syntax at the basic levels.

### Starting the Application
- Diving into the problem
- Dealing with the data
- An introduction to Incanter

After getting the initial problem, attendees will be introduced to a
real world scenario that involves data processing. They will be given
a data stream that cannot be modified and will have to write some
transformation code to handle and process the data. Attendees will
also have to produce some simple statistics on the data.  This
section will deal with experimentation on the clojure repl and trying
out new ideas that address the problem.

### Building the Application
- Making the ideas into concrete functions
- Handling dependencies
- Packaging and building
- Polish

After walking through experiments on the repl, attendees will wrangle
the ideas into a real application. They will learn how to structure a
clojure application and learn how to write clojure in an idomatic
way. At this time bonus challenges will be offered to those who have
completed the exercise, and assistance to those who are still working
through them.

## Audience
Participants should bring a working knowledge of basic statistics and
experience with at least one of:

- Java
- some dialect of Lisp,
- functional programming

## Software prerequisites
JDK \(version 1.6\) should installed and accessible.  \(Clojure itself
will be provided via USB sticks.\)

## Aaron Bedra
is a principal at Relevance,
Inc. \(http://thinkrelevance.com\) where he works as a technical lead,
speaker, and author. Aaron's current focus is Enterprise Systems
Integration using Clojure and JRuby. He is the maintainer of the Ruby
code coverage analysis tool, RCov, and is a contributor to many open
source projects including Clojure Contrib, Compojure, and Ruby on
Rails. Aaron is the author of the Rails Security Audit Peepcode.
