- type: keynote
- title: Smalltalk: 21st Century Crusades of Knights of the Lambda Calculus â€” Lessons from Past Language Crusades
- speakers: Dave Thomas


## Abstract

The new Knights of the Lambda Calculus are posed for a major crusade
on the bastions of imperative programming, in particular the Object
Barbarians whose side effects, cavalier approach to types have
dominated the commercial software landscape for almost three
decades. The Objects used a GUI Trojan horse and massive propaganda on
Reuse and Software Process to infiltrate and capture enterprise
castles and enslave application developers.

The Knights are lead by seasoned experts and accompanied by younger
fighters armed with new weapons based on decades of research. Jousting
at CUFP, GOTO/YOW and Lambda Jam gatherings has strengthened the
Knights and increased diversity from the clans of Lisp, Scheme,
Racket, Closure; ML, Haskell, OCaml, Scala, LINQ; Actors/Erlang/Rx and
APL/J/k and converts subverting popular OO languages with FP features.

This talk is addressed to our 21st knights and their followers in
preparation for the challenges ahead. We share technical and
commercial successes and failures from past language crusades in the
hopes and expectation that FP will indeed finally achieve its due
place in the practice of commercial software development. Success in
the large requires more than might, strategy and
tactics. Sustainability requires diplomacy; accommodation of less
empowered and acknowledging that side effects will linger for the rest
of time.
