src/site/2015/2015-09-04_0900_1230_t9-nikhil-swamy-f-star.md, before:

- type: tutorial
- title: T9: A Tutorial on Verifying Higher-Order, Effectful Programs Using F\*
- speakers: Nikhil Swamy and Catalin Hritcu
- affiliations: University of Cambridge

## Abstract
F\* is a new ML-like programming language for verifying higher-order,
effectful programs. Specifications are expressed using refinement
types and pre- and post-conditions on computations, and the produced
verification conditions are discharged using an SMT solver. F\* has
been successfully used to verify a variety of programs, including the
security of cryptographic protocol implementations; authorization
properties of web browser extensions and cloud-hosted web
applications; memory invariants of a model of the JavaScript runtime;
and even the soundness of the F\* type-checker itself. The latest
version of F\* is programmed in F\*, bootstraps in both OCaml and F# on
all major platforms, and is open source.

This half-day tutorial will begin with a short introductory lecture on
F\*. The rest of the time will be spent working in smaller groups in
interactive mode, using the F\* tool to program and verify the
correctness of a number of small programs, including purely functional
and effectful programs, and some small security-oriented examples.
Depending on interest, we will also cover the use of F\* as a proof
assistant, showing how it can be used to mechanize the metatheory of
the simply-typed lambda calculus.

Infrastructure: We will use the online tutorial and web editor for F\*
at https://www.fstar-lang.org/tutorial/, so participants do not need to
install anything on their machines, but they need a working internet
connection. As a fallback, F\* binaries for various platforms and
source code are available at https://github.com/FStarLang/FStar and
can be downloaded and installed in advance.

This is joined work from:
Nikhil Swamy, Catalin Hritcu, Chantal Keller, Pierre-Yves Strub, Aseem
Rastogi, Antoine Delignat-Lavaud, Karthikeyan Bhargavan and Cédric
Fournet


## Tutorial objectives

Learn you some F\*.

## Target audience
Functional programmers with an interest (but not
necessarily experience) in formal verification.


##  F\*
<div class="row" media:type="text/omd">

<div class="medium-4 columns">
<img src="img/f-star.jpg" alt=" F*"></img>
</div>

<div class="medium-8 columns" media:type="text/omd">
F\* is a collaborative effort between Microsoft Research, INRIA,
and IMDEA Software Institute. This tutorial will be delivered by
Nikhil Swamy, Catalin Hritcu, and potentially other members of the F\*
developer team.
</div>

</div>

Commit message:

Updated tutorial information with pictures and some text

src/site/2015/2015-09-04_0900_1230_t9-nikhil-swamy-f-star.md, after:

- type: tutorial
- title: T9: A Tutorial on Verifying Higher-Order, Effectful Programs Using F\*
- speakers: Nikhil Swamy and Catalin Hritcu
- affiliations: Microsoft Research / INRIA Paris

## Abstract
F\* is a new ML-like programming language for verifying higher-order,
effectful programs. Specifications are expressed using refinement
types and pre- and post-conditions on computations, and the produced
verification conditions are discharged using an SMT solver. F\* has
been successfully used to verify a variety of programs, including the
security of cryptographic protocol implementations; authorization
properties of web browser extensions and cloud-hosted web
applications; memory invariants of a model of the JavaScript runtime;
and even the soundness of the F\* type-checker itself. The latest
version of F\* is programmed in F\*, bootstraps in both OCaml and F# on
all major platforms, and is open source.


## Tutorial objectives

This half-day tutorial will begin with a short introductory lecture on
F\*. The rest of the time will be spent working in smaller groups in
interactive mode, using the F\* tool to program and verify the
correctness of a number of small programs, including purely functional
and effectful programs, and some small security-oriented examples.
Depending on interest, we will also cover the use of F\* as a proof
assistant, showing how it can be used to mechanize the metatheory of
the simply-typed lambda calculus.

Infrastructure: We will use the [online tutorial and web editor for F\*](https://www.fstar-lang.org/tutorial/), so participants do not need to
install anything on their machines, but they need a working internet
connection. As a fallback, F\* binaries for various platforms and
source code are available at [GitHub]( https://github.com/FStarLang/FStar) and
can be downloaded and installed in advance.

## Target audience
Functional programmers with an interest (but not
necessarily experience) in formal verification.


##  F\*
<div class="row" media:type="text/omd">

<div class="medium-4 columns">
<img src="https://www.fstar-lang.org/i/fstar.png" alt=" F*"></img>
</div>

<div class="medium-8 columns" media:type="text/omd">
F\* is a collaborative effort between Microsoft Research, INRIA,
and IMDEA Software Institute. This tutorial will be delivered by
[Nikhil Swamy](http://research.microsoft.com/en-us/people/nswamy/), [Catalin Hritcu](http://prosecco.gforge.inria.fr/personal/hritcu/). The F\* team also
includes Karthikeyan Bhargavan, Antoine Delignat-Lavaud, Simon Forest,
Cédric Fournet, Chantal Keller, Aseem Rastogi, Pierre-Yves Strub
</div>

</div>
