src/site/2015/2015-09-04_0900_1230_t8-zach-tellman-clojure.md, before:

- type: tutorial
- title: T8: Network Programming in Clojure
- speakers: Zach Tellman
- affiliations: Factual

## Abstract
A typical Clojure server speaks HTTP, and uses a pure function to
model the request/response cycle. This aligns well with Clojure's
programming model, but it also hides away important details, and can
make the jump to a less structured protocol such as TCP or WebSockets
painful and error-prone.  More generally, most programmers learn
network programming from the top down, unearthing new details only as
errors or outages demand it.  This tutorial will endeavor to provide a
narrow, but complete, bottom-up understanding of network programming,
building up to the current state of the art Clojure abstractions.

## Tutorial objectives
This tutorial will build upwards from the fundamentals of network
programming, with an emphasis on practical analysis of each layer of
abstraction. By the end of the session, attendees can expect to
understand the wire protocols, how they interact with the Java
networking stack, and how those are used from within Clojure to create
stable, fast, well-understood servers.

## Target audience
The target audience for this tutorial is intermediate to advanced
Clojure developers. No prior experience with network programming is
required.




##  Zach Tellman
<div class="row" media:type="text/omd">

<div class="medium-4 columns">
<img src="img/zach-tellman.jpg" alt=" Zach Tellman"></img>
</div>

<div class="medium-8 columns" media:type="text/omd">
In terms of Zach Tellman perhaps I was describing what the universe is
moving toward and which bombards us backward, so to speak, with
information about itself, thus giving us a certain awareness of
itself. I would think that for purely fictional purposes the
description given and the name given in the novel would be more rather
than less accurate vis-à-vis the tachyon theory, which is connected
with the theory that the universe is moving from chaos to form. Zach
Tellman talks to us from the future, from the end state to which
everything is moving; thus Zach Tellman is not here— which is to say
now— but will be, and what we get is information about and from Zach
Tellman, as we receive TV or radio signals from transmitters located
in other spaces in this time continuum.
</div>

</div>

Commit message:

Canceled Zach's tutorial
Author has withdrawn

src/site/2015/2015-09-04_0900_1230_t8-zach-tellman-clojure.md, after:

- type: tutorial
- title: ~~T8: Network Programming in Clojure~~ 
- speakers: Zach Tellman
- affiliations: Factual

## Canceled
Unfortunatelly the speaker had to cancel this tutorial.

## Abstract
~~A typical Clojure server speaks HTTP, and uses a pure function to
model the request/response cycle. This aligns well with Clojure's
programming model, but it also hides away important details, and can
make the jump to a less structured protocol such as TCP or WebSockets
painful and error-prone.  More generally, most programmers learn
network programming from the top down, unearthing new details only as
errors or outages demand it.  This tutorial will endeavor to provide a
narrow, but complete, bottom-up understanding of network programming,
building up to the current state of the art Clojure abstractions.~~

## Tutorial objectives
~~This tutorial will build upwards from the fundamentals of network
programming, with an emphasis on practical analysis of each layer of
abstraction. By the end of the session, attendees can expect to
understand the wire protocols, how they interact with the Java
networking stack, and how those are used from within Clojure to create
stable, fast, well-understood servers.~~

## Target audience
~~The target audience for this tutorial is intermediate to advanced
Clojure developers. No prior experience with network programming is
required.~~




##  Zach Tellman
<div class="row" media:type="text/omd">

<div class="medium-4 columns">
<img src="img/zach-tellman.jpg" alt=" Zach Tellman"></img>
</div>

<div class="medium-8 columns" media:type="text/omd">
In terms of Zach Tellman perhaps I was describing what the universe is
moving toward and which bombards us backward, so to speak, with
information about itself, thus giving us a certain awareness of
itself. I would think that for purely fictional purposes the
description given and the name given in the novel would be more rather
than less accurate vis-à-vis the tachyon theory, which is connected
with the theory that the universe is moving from chaos to form. Zach
Tellman talks to us from the future, from the end state to which
everything is moving; thus Zach Tellman is not here— which is to say
now— but will be, and what we get is information about and from Zach
Tellman, as we receive TV or radio signals from transmitters located
in other spaces in this time continuum.
</div>

</div>
