src/site/2015/call-for-tutorials.md, before:

<div class="row" media:type="text/omd">
<div class="small-12 columns" media:type="text/omd">

# CUFP 2015 Call for Tutorials

Commercial Users of Functional Programming (CUFP) is an annual meeting
co-located with the International Conference on Functional Programming
which this year will take place in Vancouver, Canada on 3-5 September 2015.
CUFP aims to bridge the gap between academia and users applying
functional programming in practice. CUFP provides high-quality
practical tutorials covering state-of-the-art techniques and tools for
functional programming. There will be a mix of tutorials on
introduction and advanced level, such that anyone that wants to learn
something new has an opportunity to do so.

We are seeking proposals for half-day tutorials to be presented during
the first two days of the meeting, 3 and 4 September. Submission
deadline is April 30th, but the earlier you submit, the better!

Among the suggested topics for tutorials are:

* Introductions to functional programming languages. In the past we
  have had introductions to Clojure, Erlang, F#, Haskell, ML, OCaml,
  Scala, Scheme and others.
* Advanced programming languages concepts and applications, such as
  Lens, Agda, Idris and others
* Applying functional programming in particular areas, including the
  web, high-performance computing, finance.
* Tools and techniques supporting state of the art functional
  programming. In the past we have had tutorials on QuickCheck, Elm and others.

Tutorial proposals should address the following points:

* Title
* Abstract (about 200 words) including
   * Tutorial Objectives: by the end of this tutorial you will be able to …
   * Intended audience: e.g. beginners, those with a working knowledge of X, …
   * Speaker Bio: Joe Bloggs is ...
   * Infrastructure required: For example, will participants need access
    to a particular system? Do they need to download anything prior to
    the tutorial? Can they be expected to have this on a laptop, or does
    it need to be provided by the meeting?
   * Other minor information which will help us market your tutorial.

Tutorials should be submitted using the following [talk submission
form](https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=cufp2015).

Tutorial Agreement  
While CUFP does not pay tutorialists, they will be compensated with
admission credits to CUFP and ICFP, as outlined below.

- If a tutorial has 5 or more registrants, the tutorialist will
  receive free admission to CUFP, including the two days of tutorials
  and the day of the CUFP workshop.
- If a tutorial has 10 or more registrants, the tutorialist will
  additionally receive a $250 voucher that can be used to register for
  any of the other ICFP events, including ICFP itself.

Note that we reserve the right to cancel tutorials with fewer than 5
registrants, but we will try hard to avoid having to do so.
No compensation will be awarded for cancelled tutorials.

If you have any questions, email Thomas Arts: thomas dot arts at
quviq dot com or Román González: romanandreg at gmail dot com

The 2015 conference is in Vancouver, Canada from September
3rd-5th. Once again, it is co-located with [ICFP
2015](http://icfpconference.org/icfp2015/).

CUFP tweets [@cufpconference](https://twitter.com/cufpconference).


</div>
</div>

Commit message:

2015/call-for-tutorials: mention deadline

src/site/2015/call-for-tutorials.md, after:

<div class="row" media:type="text/omd">
<div class="small-12 columns" media:type="text/omd">

# CUFP 2015 Call for Tutorials

Commercial Users of Functional Programming (CUFP) is an annual meeting
co-located with the International Conference on Functional Programming
which this year will take place in Vancouver, Canada on 3-5 September 2015.
CUFP aims to bridge the gap between academia and users applying
functional programming in practice. CUFP provides high-quality
practical tutorials covering state-of-the-art techniques and tools for
functional programming. There will be a mix of tutorials on
introduction and advanced level, such that anyone that wants to learn
something new has an opportunity to do so.

We are seeking proposals for half-day tutorials to be presented during
the first two days of the meeting, 3 and 4 September. Submission
deadline is April 30th, but the earlier you submit, the better!

Among the suggested topics for tutorials are:

* Introductions to functional programming languages. In the past we
  have had introductions to Clojure, Erlang, F#, Haskell, ML, OCaml,
  Scala, Scheme and others.
* Advanced programming languages concepts and applications, such as
  Lens, Agda, Idris and others
* Applying functional programming in particular areas, including the
  web, high-performance computing, finance.
* Tools and techniques supporting state of the art functional
  programming. In the past we have had tutorials on QuickCheck, Elm and others.

Tutorial proposals should address the following points:

* Title
* Abstract (about 200 words) including
   * Tutorial Objectives: by the end of this tutorial you will be able to …
   * Intended audience: e.g. beginners, those with a working knowledge of X, …
   * Speaker Bio: Joe Bloggs is ...
   * Infrastructure required: For example, will participants need access
    to a particular system? Do they need to download anything prior to
    the tutorial? Can they be expected to have this on a laptop, or does
    it need to be provided by the meeting?
   * Other minor information which will help us market your tutorial.

Tutorials should be submitted using the following [talk submission
form](https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=cufp2015). Deadline for
submission is May 25, 2015. Notification of acceptance is two weeks
later.

Tutorial Agreement  
While CUFP does not pay tutorialists, they will be compensated with
admission credits to CUFP and ICFP, as outlined below.

- If a tutorial has 5 or more registrants, the tutorialist will
  receive free admission to CUFP, including the two days of tutorials
  and the day of the CUFP workshop.
- If a tutorial has 10 or more registrants, the tutorialist will
  additionally receive a $250 voucher that can be used to register for
  any of the other ICFP events, including ICFP itself.

Note that we reserve the right to cancel tutorials with fewer than 5
registrants, but we will try hard to avoid having to do so.
No compensation will be awarded for cancelled tutorials.

If you have any questions, email Thomas Arts: thomas dot arts at
quviq dot com or Román González: romanandreg at gmail dot com

The 2015 conference is in Vancouver, Canada from September
3rd-5th. Once again, it is co-located with [ICFP
2015](http://icfpconference.org/icfp2015/).

CUFP tweets [@cufpconference](https://twitter.com/cufpconference).


</div>
</div>
