- type: bof
- title: BoF: Functional Programming in Bioinformatics
- speakers: Ashish Agarwal, Jeff Hammerbacher
- affiliations: Solvuu, Mt Sinai


Bioinformatics is a discipline applying computational methods to
biological problems. Due to advances in experimental techniques,
especially in next-generation DNA sequencing, the amount of data being
generated by biologists is exponentially increasing. The resulting
data deluge promises to accelerate fundamental advances in human
health, agriculture, and basic research. However, progress is hindered
due to the lack of software tools for managing, analyzing,
visualizing, and sharing such data.

The goal of this meeting is to bring together researchers and
practitioners of functional programming, logic, type theory, and
related fields who are interested in applying their skills to biology
and medicine. We also welcome biologists who are curious about
state-of-the-art software engineering techniques. The meeting will be
casual with no presentations. Our goal is simply to meet and discuss
our interests, and propose future events and collaborations. We will
meet at Connolly’s Publik House within the conference venue, the
Hilton Boston Logan Airport Hotel, on Monday September 23rd at 6:00
PM.

Everyone is welcome to attend this meeting regardless of whether you
registered for any ICFP or CUFP events. RSVP is not required, but to
help with planning, please email (agarwal1975)(at) (gmail.com) if you
know you will attend.

Please also join the Well-Formed-Bio mailing list [1], which we
welcome everyone to use for discussions around the topic of formal
software methods applied to biology.

[1] https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/well-formed-bio
