- type: talk
- title: Building a commercial development platform Haskell, an experience report
- speakers: Gregg Lebovitz
- affiliations: FP Complete
- slides: /2013/slides/lebovitz.pdf
- video: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UqtHHwNjAI0


## Abstract
FP Complete has recently released FP Haskell Center, a web based
Haskell development and deployment environment written entirely in
Haskell and JavaScript. Much of the JavaScript is written in Fay, a
Haskell DSL for generating type safe JavaScript code. Many companies
are realizing the benefits of developing innovative web based
applications using Haskell.  Attendees will come away from this
presentation with an understanding of the issues developers face when
building and deploying large scale Haskell web based applications, and
how they might address them. This means building reliable services,
but also making the development and deployment experience intuitive
and productive.  Unlike other tutorials which talk about the benefits
of building Haskell applications at a high level, this presentation
gets into the nitty gritty details of the development process using
Haskell.  It discusses the challenges faced by FP Complete as we
constructed a complete and easy to use online development and
deployment service based on Haskell, Yesod, and cloud services such as
AWS.  Many of these challenges were technical in nature and included
developing Haskell interfaces to both standard front end and back end
applications. Others were non technical, focusing on resolving library
licensing issues, minimizing operational costs, and managing cloud
services.

## Gregg Lebovitz
is Director of Product Management at FP Complete and has been working
with Haskell for over a year. Working in the computer industry since
1979, Gregg's specialties include development platforms, parallel and
distributed software, advanced developer training, and management of
innovations into full production. Most recently Gregg launched and
grew the Mobile Application business at Integrated Computer Solutions,
growing ICS to a Premier Partner and releasing several highly-rated
applications with Microsoft Deep Partner Solutions. An expert on the
Qt platform, Gregg worked with Nokia on development projects and
produced training videos for ICSNetwork. Also an expert on Windows
Phone development, he provided training as part of Microsoft's
Developer Outreach program and produced videos for Microsoft's Channel
9.
