- type: tutorial
- title: T8: The Seductions of Scala 
- speakers: Dean Wampler 
- affiliations: Concurrent Thought


## Abstract
I was seduced by the Scala language several years ago. This hands-on
tutorial will show you why. We’ll learn how its powerful Functional
Programming features improve productivity, quality, concurrency, and
eliminate many of the common examples of over-engineering seen in
typical “enterprise” applications today. We’ll see how Scala fixes
many issues with Java’s object model and type system. Scala is
unusually good at supporting Domain Specific Languages (DSLs) and its
higher-level concurrency features, such as the Akka Actor system, make
distributed systems far easier to implement reliably.

## Target Audience
This tutorial will appeal to developers interested in functional
programming and new languages on the JVM, especially for building
distributed systems.  I will assume that you already know other
programming languages and that you are comfortable writing code for
this hands-on tutorial. Bring your laptop with Scala V2.10 installed
and your favourite text editor or IDE.

## Preparations
Go to the [GitHub
page](https://github.com/deanwampler/SeductionsOfScalaTutorial) for
this tutorial and follow the instructions shown in the README, which
tells you how to install the required tools: Git, Java, Scala, and the
Scala build tool, sbt. \(Even if you already have them installed, make
sure you have the recent versions described in the README.\) Please
complete these steps in advance so we don't have to spend class time
doing them.

## Dean Wampler
<img align="right" src="https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/-or6KbG-vLPY/UGpnWj79xhI/AAAAAAAAAHs/1c2EnL6k0HI/w695-h690-no/Wampler_017crop_quarter_size.jpg" alt="Dean Wampler" width="200"></img>
Dean Wampler specializes in “Big Data” application development, using
Hadoop and alternative technologies. Dean is a contributer to several
open-source projects and the founder of the Chicago-Area Scala
Enthusiasts. He is the author of “Functional Programming for Java
Developers”, the co-author of “Programming Scala”, and the co-author
of “Programming Hive”, all from O’Reilly. He pontificates on twitter,
[@deanwampler](https://twitter.com/deanwampler), and at
[polyglotprogramming.com](http://polyglotprogramming.com).
