src/site/2014/2014-09-05_0900_1230_t7-leo-white-introduction-to-ocaml.md, before:

- type: tutorial
- title: T7: Introduction to OCaml
- speakers: Leo White
- affiliations: University of Cambridge


## Abstract
OCaml is a statically typed functional language with a fast native
code compiler and incremental garbage collector. In this tutorial, we
will first introduce the basics of OCaml using an interactive
environment running in a web browser, as well as a local install of
OCaml using the OPAM package manager. We will also explore how to
compile OCaml to JavaScript using the js_of_ocaml tool.

## Tutorial objectives
This tutorial aims to give an introduction to the OCaml
language. Attendees should leave feeling comfortable writing simple
OCaml programs and using core OCaml tools.

## Target audience
This tutorial is aimed at people with programming experience. Previous
experience with a functional language will be useful but is not
required. No prior knowledge of OCaml is assumed.

## Leo White
<!--<img align="right" src="img/leo-white.jpg" alt="Leo White"></img>-->
Leo White is a Research Associate in the OCaml Labs group at the
University of Cambridge. He is the author of two chapters in the Real
World OCaml book, and of various contributions to the OCaml compiler
including the recent addition of "extensible variants" to the
language.

Commit message:

Add Jeremy Yallop as a second author to ocaml talk

src/site/2014/2014-09-05_0900_1230_t7-leo-white-introduction-to-ocaml.md, after:

- type: tutorial
- title: T7: Introduction to OCaml
- speakers: Leo White, Jeremy Yallop
- affiliations: University of Cambridge, University of Cambridge


## Abstract
OCaml is a statically typed functional language with a fast native
code compiler and incremental garbage collector. In this tutorial, we
will first introduce the basics of OCaml using an interactive
environment running in a web browser, as well as a local install of
OCaml using the OPAM package manager. We will also explore how to
compile OCaml to JavaScript using the js_of_ocaml tool.

## Tutorial objectives
This tutorial aims to give an introduction to the OCaml
language. Attendees should leave feeling comfortable writing simple
OCaml programs and using core OCaml tools.

## Target audience
This tutorial is aimed at people with programming experience. Previous
experience with a functional language will be useful but is not
required. No prior knowledge of OCaml is assumed.

## Leo White
<!--<img align="right" src="img/leo-white.jpg" alt="Leo White"></img>-->
Leo White is a Research Associate in the OCaml Labs group at the
University of Cambridge. He is the author of two chapters in the Real
World OCaml book, and of various contributions to the OCaml compiler
including the recent addition of "extensible variants" to the
language.

## Jeremy Yallop
<!--<img align="right" src="img/jeremy-yallop.jpg" alt="Jeremy Yallop"></img>-->
Leo White is a Research Associate in the OCaml Labs group at the
University of Cambridge. He worked on the ctypes library
that had the goal of eliminating the need to write any C code at all for the vast majority of foreign bindings.
Jeremy also participated in creating "Real World OCaml".
He helped out with extensive review of the Foreign Function Interface chapter,
that used his ctypes library.
