- type: tutorial
- title: F# 2.0 \- A day at the beach
- speakers: Rick Minerich
- affiliations: Atalasoft Inc.


## Abstract
This tutorial will be organised around learning the building blocks of F#,
real world functional programming principles, and platform compatibility.

+     "Hello Seagull" \- A first glimpse of F#

+     Beyond the REPL \- A relaxing Visual Studio 2010 rubdown

+     The Power of Types \- A distinct lack of unpleasant surprises

+     Asynchrony and Concurrency \- Be lazy, it works so you don't have to

+     Monadic Magic \- A frosty gulp of language oriented programming

+     Tour de F# \- Enjoy the fruits of others' hard work

What can attendees expect?  A thorough introduction to F#, one of the most
powerful languages available for real world development.  Come dive into the
building blocks of functional programming, swim around with the safety and
convenience of type inferred statically checked code, and glide through F#'s
impressive array of libraries.

## Audience
General.  All programmers are welcome.  Come with curiosity and an
open mind.  Those at any level of functional programming or F# experience
will enjoy this session.

## Software prerequisites:
- \(Windows\) Visual Studio 2010, Visual Studio 2008 w/ F# plugin
- \(Linux/Mac\) Mono w/ F# Zip Package Installed

### Visual Studio 2010
Any non-express Visual Studio 2010 installation comes with F#, just as long
as it wasn't deselected during installation.

### Microsoft Windows without Visual Studio 2010
On Windows, you need to download and install [Visual Studio 2010 Shell
\(integrated mode\)](http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/en/details.aspx?FamilyID=8e5aa7b6-8436-43f0-b778-00c3bca733d3&displaylang=en).
After installing Visual Studio 2010 Shell the next step is to download and
install the F# Standalone package.  To do this just go to the [F# MSDN
portal](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/fsharp/default.aspx) and click
"Get the F# Standalone and VS2008 CTP". After that, scroll to the bottom of the page, click the download button for "InstallFSharp.msi" and run it.

### Macintosh / Linux
If you don't already have a recent version of Mono installed, you'll need to
get it.  This process varies from platform to platform, please see
[this page](http://www.mono-project.com/Getting_Mono) for more information.

Next, you'll need to install F#.  This requires downloading two things: the
F# standalone package and the Mono key file.

+     Download the F# standalone package, `fsharp.zip`, from
[here](http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/en/details.aspx?FamilyID=f8c623ae-aef6-4a06-a185-05f59be47d67&displaylang=en).

+     Download the Mono Key from [here](http://github.com/mono/mono/raw/master/mcs/class/mono.snk).

+     Unarchive `fsharp.zip`, copy `mono.snk` to the location F# was unarchived
to, and run `install-mono.sh`.  This script will install F# assemblies into
the Mono GAC and ensure correct permissions.

+     To use F#, from the unarchived FSharp directory, run `mono bin/fsi.exe` for the interactive window \(REPL\) and `mono bin/fsc.exe` to
compile from source.


## Richard Minerich
is a Microsoft MVP for the F# programming language.
Through writing, speaking and running events, Richard hopes to help bridge
the gap between the cutting edge in computation and the mainstream software
engineer.  Currently, Richard works as a Software Architect specializing in
digital image processing at Atalasoft, Inc.  He also leads the New England
F# User Group and is anxiously awaiting the release of his first book,
Professional F# 2.0.
