<div class="row" media:type="text/omd">
<div class="small-12 columns" media:type="text/omd">

# About

Functional programming languages have been a hot topic of academic
research for over 35 years, and are rapidly being adopted in diverse
real-world settings ranging from from tech start-ups to financial and
biomedical firms. At the same time, a vigorous community of
practically-minded functional programmers has come into existence.

CUFP is designed to serve this community.

The CUFP workshop is a place where people can see how others are using
functional programming to solve real world problems; where
practitioners meet and collaborate; where language designers and users
can share ideas about the future of their favourite language; and
where one can learn practical techniques and approaches for putting
functional programming to work.

## Program Plans
CUFP 2013 will be colocated with ICFP 2013 in Boston, USA.  The
workshop will last for three days, and will consist of CUFP Talks and
CUFP Tutorials.

**CUFP Talks** will consist of a series of talks given by
practitioners in the field. The talks will be split between shorter
experience reports, describing ways in which functional programming
has been used, either successfully or unsuccessfully, in the real
world; and longer technical talks, which will detail techniques and
approaches for applying functional programming in practical settings.

**CUFP Tutorials** will be made up of in-depth, hands-on sessions for
learning particular technologies and techniques in functional
programming. These will range from language introductions for
beginners to more advanced and focused sessions on particular language
features, techniques or tool kits.

There will be no published proceedings, as the meeting is intended to
be more a discussion forum than a technical interchange.  All of the
videos of previous talks are available in our [videos](/videos/)
section on this site.

</div>
</div>
